---
title: "A Public Safety Deduction Framework Based on Real-Time Big Data"
layout: pub
classification: publications
date: 2016-10-02 00:00:00 +0000
excerpt: "Under the instruction of Public Safety Network, the research on public safety management based on the big data of human space-time behavior has become the main work in academic field. The traditional researches only focus on the discovering of statistical laws from big data. The problems such as dynamic increasing of big data, the relationships bet..."
link: "https://www.researchgate.net/publication/308496277_A_Public_Safety_Deduction_Framework_Based_on_Real-Time_Big_Data"
year: "Oct 2016"
author: "Bin Chen,Zhichao Song,"
journal: "Theory, Methodology, Tools and Applications for Modeling and Simulation of Complex Systems"
excerpt: "Under the instruction of Public Safety Network, the research on public safety management based on the big data of human space-time behavior has become the main work in academic field. The traditional researches only focus on the discovering of statistical laws from big data. The problems such as dynamic increasing of big data, the relationships bet..."
tags: source
portfolio-type: 
- type: "Source"
- type: "illustration"
- type: "publications"
weight: 未知
authorFirst: "Bin Chen"
correspondingAuthor: "Zhichao Song"
searchStatus:  Springer
searchNumber: "10.1007/978-981-10-2669-0_62"
impactFactors: 未知
database: Web of Science
---
Abstract

Under the instruction of Public Safety Network, the research on public safety management based on the big data of human space-time behavior has become the main work in academic field. The traditional researches only focus on the discovering of statistical laws from big data. The problems such as dynamic increasing of big data, the relationships between human behavior in micro view and public management in macro view, and the relationships between data perception in real world and scenario deduction in virtual artificial system are easily ignored. Therefore, the integration of big data for urban population distribution modeling is proposed to solve the problem of big data integration. Real-time big data driven public safety scenario deduction system framework is proposed to find the most optimal emergency decision plan. ACP approach based public safety emergency decision method is proposed to apply the game theory in real public safety scenarios. Two specific safety scenarios are chosen to study from evacuation in streets and park, chemical gas leak in ports and chemical industrial area. The computational experiments are designed according to the requirements of public safety scenario to apply real-time big data. The main work can be summarized as following: big data collection from internet of things for public safety, multi-paradigm modeling based urban population distribution modeling by big data integration, computational experiments of crowd in specific situations, the applications of emergency decision analysis is for public management. Based on iterations of interactions between micro and macro views, real world and virtual systems, the research can be used to solve the problems in real public management application.