---
title: "Playing Chemical Plant Environmental Protection Games with Historical Monitoring Data"
layout: pub
classification: publications
date: 2017-09-02 00:00:00 +0000
excerpt: "The chemical industry is very important for the world economy and this industrial sector represents a substantial income source for developing countries. However, existing regulations on controlling atmospheric pollutants, and the enforcement of these regulations, often are insufficient in such countries. As a result, the deterioration of surroundi..."
link: "https://www.researchgate.net/publication/320123095_Playing_Chemical_Plant_Environmental_Protection_Games_with_Historical_Monitoring_Data"
year: "Sep 2017"
author: "Zhengqiu Zhu,Bin Chen,Genserik Reniers,Laobing Zhang,Sihang Qiu,Zhichao Song,"
journal: "International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health (IJERPH)"
excerpt: "The chemical industry is very important for the world economy and this industrial sector represents a substantial income source for developing countries. However, existing regulations on controlling atmospheric pollutants, and the enforcement of these regulations, often are insufficient in such countries. As a result, the deterioration of surroundi..."
tags: source
portfolio-type: 
- type: "Source"
- type: "illustration"
- type: "publications"
weight: JCR三区
authorFirst: "Zhengqiu Zhu"
correspondingAuthor: "Zhichao Song"
searchStatus:  SCI/EI
searchNumber: "10.3390/ijerph14101155"
impactFactors: 0
database: Web of Science
---
Abstract

The chemical industry is very important for the world economy and this industrial sector represents a substantial income source for developing countries. However, existing regulations on controlling atmospheric pollutants, and the enforcement of these regulations, often are insufficient in such countries. As a result, the deterioration of surrounding ecosystems and a quality decrease of the atmospheric environment can be observed. Previous works in this domain fail to generate executable and pragmatic solutions for inspection agencies due to practical challenges. In addressing these challenges, we introduce a so-called Chemical Plant Environment Protection Game (CPEP) to generate reasonable schedules of high-accuracy air quality monitoring stations (i.e., daily management plans) for inspection agencies. First, so-called Stackelberg Security Games (SSGs) in conjunction with source estimation methods are applied into this research. Second, high-accuracy air quality monitoring stations as well as gas sensor modules are modeled in the CPEP game. Third, simplified data analysis on the regularly discharging of chemical plants is utilized to construct the CPEP game. Finally, an illustrative case study is used to investigate the effectiveness of the CPEP game, and a realistic case study is conducted to illustrate how the models and algorithms being proposed in this paper, work in daily practice. Results show that playing a CPEP game can reduce operational costs of high-accuracy air quality monitoring stations. Moreover, evidence suggests that playing the game leads to more compliance from the chemical plants towards the inspection agencies. Therefore, the CPEP game is able to assist the environmental protection authorities in daily management work and reduce the potential risks of gaseous pollutants dispersion incidents.