---
title: "Evolution Model of Spatial Interaction Network in Online Social Networking Services"
layout: pub
classification: publications
date: 2019-04-02 00:00:00 +0000
excerpt: "The development of online social networking services provides a rich source of data of social networks including geospatial information. More and more research has shown that geographical space is an important factor in the interactions of users in social networks. In this paper, we construct the spatial interaction network from the city level, whi..."
link: "https://www.researchgate.net/publication/332635892_Evolution_Model_of_Spatial_Interaction_Network_in_Online_Social_Networking_Services"
year: "Apr 2019"
author: "Jian Dong,Bin Chen,Pengfei Zhang,Roger ai,Fang Zhang,Danhuai Guo,Xiaogang Qiu,"
journal: "Entropy"
excerpt: "The development of online social networking services provides a rich source of data of social networks including geospatial information. More and more research has shown that geographical space is an important factor in the interactions of users in social networks. In this paper, we construct the spatial interaction network from the city level, whi..."
tags: source
portfolio-type: 
- type: "Source"
- type: "illustration"
- type: "publications"
weight: JCR二区
authorFirst: "Jian Dong"
correspondingAuthor: "Xiaogang Qiu"
searchStatus:  SCI/EI
searchNumber: "10.3390/e21040434"
impactFactors: 2.7
database: Web of Science
---
Abstract

The development of online social networking services provides a rich source of data of social networks including geospatial information. More and more research has shown that geographical space is an important factor in the interactions of users in social networks. In this paper, we construct the spatial interaction network from the city level, which is called the city interaction network, and study the evolution mechanism of the city interaction network formed in the process of information dissemination in social networks. A network evolution model for interactions among cities is established. The evolution model consists of two core processes: the edge arrival and the preferential attachment of the edge. The edge arrival model arranges the arrival time of each edge; the model of preferential attachment of the edge determines the source node and the target node of each arriving edge. Six preferential attachment models (Random-Random, Random-Degree, Degree-Random, Geographical distance, Degree-Degree, Degree-Degree-Geographical distance) are built, and the maximum likelihood approach is used to do the comparison. We find that the degree of the node and the geographic distance of the edge are the key factors affecting the evolution of the city interaction network. Finally, the evolution experiments using the optimal model DDG are conducted, and the experiment results are compared with the real city interaction network extracted from the information dissemination data of the WeChat web page. The results indicate that the model can not only capture the attributes of the real city interaction network, but also reflect the actual characteristics of the interactions among cities.