---
title: "A Cost-Quality Beneficial Cell Selection Approach for Sparse Mobile Crowdsensing With Diverse Sensing Costs"
layout: pub
classification: publications
date: 2020-09-02 00:00:00 +0000
excerpt: "The Internet of Things (IoT) and mobile techniques enable real-time sensing for urban computing systems. By recruiting only a small number of users to sense data from selected subareas (namely cells), Sparse Mobile Crowdsensing (MCS) emerges as an effective paradigm to reduce sensing costs for monitoring the overall status of a large-scale area. Th..."
link: "https://www.researchgate.net/publication/344325766_A_Cost-Quality_Beneficial_Cell_Selection_Approach_for_Sparse_Mobile_Crowdsensing_With_Diverse_Sensing_Costs"
year: "Sep 2020"
author: "Zhengqiu Zhu,Bin Chen,Wenbin Liu,Zhao Yong,"
journal: "IEEE Internet of Things Journal"
excerpt: "The Internet of Things (IoT) and mobile techniques enable real-time sensing for urban computing systems. By recruiting only a small number of users to sense data from selected subareas (namely cells), Sparse Mobile Crowdsensing (MCS) emerges as an effective paradigm to reduce sensing costs for monitoring the overall status of a large-scale area. Th..."
tags: source
portfolio-type: 
- type: "Source"
- type: "illustration"
- type: "publications"
weight: JCR一区
authorFirst: "Zhengqiu Zhu"
correspondingAuthor: "Zhao Yong"
searchStatus:  SCI/EI
searchNumber: "10.1109/JIOT.2020.3024833"
impactFactors: 10.6
database: Web of Science
---
Abstract

The Internet of Things (IoT) and mobile techniques enable real-time sensing for urban computing systems. By recruiting only a small number of users to sense data from selected subareas (namely cells), Sparse Mobile Crowdsensing (MCS) emerges as an effective paradigm to reduce sensing costs for monitoring the overall status of a large-scale area. The current Sparse MCS solutions reduce the sensing subareas (by selecting the most informative cells) based on the assumption that each sample has the same cost, which is not always realistic in realworld, as the cost of sensing in a subarea can be diverse due to many factors, e.g. condition of the device, location, and routing distance. To address this issue, we proposed a new cell selection approach consisting of three steps (information modeling, cost estimation, and cost-quality beneficial cell selection) to further reduce the total costs and improve the task quality. Specifically, we discussed the properties of the optimization goals and modeled the cell selection problem as a solvable bi-objective optimization problem under certain assumptions and approximation. Then, we presented two selection strategies, i.e. Pareto Optimization Selection (POS) and Generalized Cost-Benefit Greedy (GCBGREEDY) Selection along with our proposed cell selection algorithm. Finally, the superiority of our cell selection approach is assessed through four real-life urban monitoring datasets (Parking, Flow, Traffic, and Humidity) and three cost maps (i.i.d with dynamic cost map, monotonic with dynamic cost map and spatial correlated cost map). Results show that our proposed selection strategies POS and GCB-GREEDY can save up to 15.2% and 15.02% sample costs and reduce the inference errors to a maximum of 16.8% (15.5%) compared to the baseline-Query by Committee (QBC) in a sensing cycle. The findings show important implications in Sparse Mobile Crowdsensing for urban context properties.