---
title: 'Multi-Robot Collaborative Source Searching Strategy in Large-Scale Chemical Clusters'
layout: pub
classification: publications
date: 2021-04-02 00:00:00 +0000
excerpt: In hazardous gas leakage accidents in chemical clusters, quickly and accurately locating the diffusion source via mobile sensors (searcher) can effectively speed up emergency response. While state-of-the-art researches designed kinds of autonomous sensing and searching techniques, e.g. cognitive-based strategies to complete the localization of the leakage source; the current studies cannot meet chemical cluster’s requirements with complex road network constraints and spatial scales. To address this problem, we firstly combine a cognitive search strategy with great theoretical performance (Entrotaxis algorithm) with an intermittent search strategy and propose a fresh searching algorithm, namely Entrotaxis-Turn (ET)...
link: https://sci-hub.se/10.1109/JSEN.2021.3069029
year: 2021
author: Yatai Ji,Feiran Chen,Bin Chen,Yiduo Wang,Xiaomin Zhu,Hua He
journal: IEEE Sensors Journal 
content_img: "/uploads/2022/12/newd.jpg"
author_img: ''
tags: Source
portfolio-type: 
- type: "Source"
- type: "illustration"
- type: "publications"
weight: JCR二区
authorFirst: 季雅泰
correspondingAuthor: hua he
searchStatus:  SCI/EI
searchNumber: 10.1021/acs.jpclett.3c00672
impactFactors: 8.6
database: Web of Science
---
Abstract

In hazardous gas leakage accidents in chemical clusters, quickly and accurately locating the diffusion source via mobile sensors (searcher) can effectively speed up emergency response. While state-of-the-art researches designed kinds of autonomous sensing and searching techniques, e.g. cognitive-based strategies to complete the localization of the leakage source; the current studies cannot meet chemical cluster’s requirements with complex road network constraints and spatial scales. To address this problem, we firstly combine a cognitive search strategy with great theoretical performance (Entrotaxis algorithm) with an intermittent search strategy and propose a fresh searching algorithm, namely Entrotaxis-Turn (ET). The hybrid algorithm can make use of the triggered turn motion to bypass obstacles to avoid falling into a loop, thereby improving the success rate and saving the searching time. Secondly, we extend the ET algorithm to the multi-robot collaboration pattern (Multi-ET algorithm), in which each mobile sensor shares the information collected along its route with each other. To reveal the performance of the proposed algorithms, a simulation scene is built in a typical chemical cluster scene and diffused gas is generated based on the advection-diffusion equation. Through Monte Carlo simulations, the optimal parameter combinations in the ET and Multi-ET algorithm are obtained. Finally, a verification experiment is carried out based on the simulation scene generated by the computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model. Results show that compared with the Entrotaxis algorithm, the efficiency and success rate of the ET algorithm are dramatically improved. Moreover, the Multi-ET algorithm obtains the optimal source searching performance.