---
title: "Understanding the Necessity and Economic Benefits of Lockdown Measures to Contain COVID-19"
layout: pub
classification: publications
date: 2022-07-02 00:00:00 +0000
excerpt: "Since the outbreak of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), the issue of how to maintain economic development while containing the epidemic has become a significant concern for decision makers. Though lockdown measures are verified to be very effective in containing the epidemic, its economic costs and other influences have not fully explored. A..."
link: "https://www.researchgate.net/publication/362251313_Understanding_the_Necessity_and_Economic_Benefits_of_Lockdown_Measures_to_Contain_COVID-19"
year: "Jul 2022"
author: "Zhengqiu Zhu,Roger ai,Hailiang Chen,Bin Chen,Wei Duan,Xiaogang Qiu,Xin Lu,Ming He,Zhiming Zhao,Zhong Liu,"
journal: "IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems"
excerpt: "Since the outbreak of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), the issue of how to maintain economic development while containing the epidemic has become a significant concern for decision makers. Though lockdown measures are verified to be very effective in containing the epidemic, its economic costs and other influences have not fully explored. A..."
tags: source
portfolio-type: 
- type: "Source"
- type: "illustration"
- type: "publications"
weight: JCR一区
authorFirst: "Zhengqiu Zhu"
correspondingAuthor: "Zhong Liu"
searchStatus:  SCI/EI
searchNumber: "10.1109/TCSS.2022.3194639"
impactFactors: 5.0
database: Web of Science
---
Abstract

Since the outbreak of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), the issue of how to maintain economic development while containing the epidemic has become a significant concern for decision makers. Though lockdown measures are verified to be very effective in containing the epidemic, its economic costs and other influences have not fully explored. As a result, decision makers in many countries are still hesitant to include the lockdown measure into an intervention strategy in response to COVID-19. To address this issue, we propose a universal computational experiment approach for policy evaluation and adjustment based on the Artificial societies, Computational experiments , Parallel execution (ACP) concept. Firstly, we innovatively construct a model via observable CO2 emissions, which is able to estimate the economic costs affected by non-pharmaceutical interventions. Further, based on the population movement data, a risk source model is proposed to estimate the local transmission risk for any prefectures outside the epicenter. Finally, we integrate the data models in a high-resolution agent-based artificial society and carry out large-scale computational experiments supported by Tianhe supercomputer. Policy adjustments and evaluations are carried out on four cities: Wenzhou, Guangzhou, Beijing, and Wuhan. Our research findings show important implications for policy-making: (i) the local transmission of a city can be almost contained if lockdowns are adopted immediately when the risk index is larger than 1.645, 1.960, or 2.576 at the 90%, 95%, or 99% confidence interval, respectively; (ii) if lockdowns are required, in-advance lockdown measures facilitate mitigation efficacy and reduce economic loss; (iii) lockdowns lasting for 7-14 days in a prefecture would be effective in controlling the spread of the epidemic. The duration of the measure should be prolonged with the increment of the initial transmission risk.