---
title: "A Crowd-Aided Vehicular Hybrid Sensing Framework for Intelligent Transportation Systems"
layout: pub
classification: publications
date: 2022-10-02 00:00:00 +0000
excerpt: "In traditional practices of transportation system's constructions, traffic-related information is collected based on dedicated sensor networks, which are not only coverage-limited but also cost-consuming. With the enrichment of the concepts concerning 'social sensors' and 'social transportation', Sparse Mobile Crowdsensing (MCS) is proposed to coll..."
link: "https://www.researchgate.net/publication/364357802_A_Crowd-Aided_Vehicular_Hybrid_Sensing_Framework_for_Intelligent_Transportation_Systems"
year: "Oct 2022"
author: "Zhengqiu Zhu,Zhao Yong,Bin Chen,Sihang Qiu,Zhong Liu,Kun Xie,Liang ma,"
journal: "IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles"
excerpt: "In traditional practices of transportation system's constructions, traffic-related information is collected based on dedicated sensor networks, which are not only coverage-limited but also cost-consuming. With the enrichment of the concepts concerning 'social sensors' and 'social transportation', Sparse Mobile Crowdsensing (MCS) is proposed to coll..."
tags: source
portfolio-type: 
- type: "Source"
- type: "illustration"
- type: "publications"
weight: JCR一区
authorFirst: "Zhengqiu Zhu"
correspondingAuthor: "Liang ma"
searchStatus:  SCI/EI
searchNumber: "10.1109/TIV.2022.3216318"
impactFactors: 8.2
database: Web of Science
---
Abstract

In traditional practices of transportation system's constructions, traffic-related information is collected based on dedicated sensor networks, which are not only coverage-limited but also cost-consuming. With the enrichment of the concepts concerning 'social sensors' and 'social transportation', Sparse Mobile Crowdsensing (MCS) is proposed to collect data from only a few subareas by recruiting participants with portable devices and to infer the data in unsensed subareas with acceptable errors. However, in real-world sensing campaigns, the Sparse MCS systems often fail to collect data from any subareas of interest since the assumption about sufficient participants is not always realistic. To be specific, the recruitment of participants is often limited by interest deficiency, privacy awareness, and distribution biases. To handle this problem, we introduce the dedicated sensing vehicles (DSVs) into traditional Sparse MCS to improve subarea coverage and inference performance. To achieve effective collaboration among DSVs and mobile users, we first design a crowd-aided vehicular hybrid sensing framework, which defines the order of task assignment for different participants as well as the budget allocation. In terms of DSVs route planning, we propose a three-step strategy, including optimal route searching, fused route selection, and final route determination. Moreover, mobile users are selected based on a novel selection strategy. Experimental findings on two real-world datasets validate the effectiveness (with less inference error) of the hybrid sensing framework, in comparison with the user-only/DSV-only framework and five baselines. Results reveal important implications of applying the hybrid sensing paradigm in intelligent transportation systems to enhance data collection